***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer:PL is set of instruction for computer to follow.

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer:Java Development Kit, Java RunTime Environment, Java Virtual Machine.
JDK: is a development environment for building Applications,Applets and components.
JRE: is provide environment just to run java application
JVM: JVM is intrepreter which is responsible to read code line by line.

What is an IDE?
Answer:Integrated Development Environment

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer:Intellij,Eclipse,Netbeans.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer:JDK is composed of Java Development Kit (JDK), Java Run-time Environment (JRE), and Java Virtual Machine (JVM).
       - JDK is a widely used software development environment package, that provides a base to all the application targeted to
       build a java based application.
       - JRE is part of JDK. JRE is a set of components to run java applications.
       - JVM loads, verifies and provides run-time environment(JRE) in which java bytecode can be executed.

What is a class?
Answer:A class is a blueprint or representation of a real-world object.

What is an object?
Answer:an entity that has state and behavior is called object for example vehicle is a class and toyota is the object of the vehicle class.

What is the entry point of a Java project?
Answer:main method

Why is the main() method static?
Answer:because when jvm load class into the memory so it can call main method.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer:Java.lang.Object

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer: path: The path environment variable is used to specify the set of directories which contains executional programs.
        classpath: The class path environment variable is used to specify the location of the classes and packages.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer:Interface is allow only abstract method only.
       Interface by default all variables are public static final.
       Interfaces by default all methods are public and abstract.
       Constructor not allowed in interface.

       Abstract Class is class which allowed concrete method and abstract method
       Abstract class no default cases for variables.
       Abstract classes no default cases for methods.
       Constructor are allowed in abstract.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer:In case of interface object creation is not allowed because interface have only method declration.
       In case of abstract class object creation is not allowed because abstract class is not completed class.

What is Access Modifier?
Answer:Access Modifier are keyword used for defining accessibilty of class,methods and data members.

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer:Object Oriented Programming languages.Inheritance,Polymorphism,Encapulation,Abstraction.

Inheritance:The process of getting variables and methods from one class to another class is called inheritance.
Single Inheritance,Multiple Inheritance,Multiple Inheritance,Hierarchical Inheritance.
important point (java doesnot support multple inheritance due to ambiguity).

Polymorphism:Polymorphism is a Greek word, where poly means many and morphism means Structures.
Static polymorphism, Dynamic polymorphism

Encapulation: the process of the binding data in a single unit is called encapulation.
User not able to access the methods and variables directly so we provide getter and setter

Abstraction: The process showing necessary data or implementation and hiding unnecessary data or implementation is called as Abstraction.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer:Java Package contain unit of classes.By default java.lang is imported by defalut.

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer:An application programming interface.REST,PartnerAPIS,Google,XML.

Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer:To avoid ambiguity problem java doesnot support multiple inheritance.

What is method overloading? List all the different ways to overload.
Answer: If we declare more than one method with the same name and with different parameter list then it is called as Method Overloading.
using different number of parameter in argument, using different data type in argument.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer:Exception is unexpected event occurred due to invalid input or may be logical error which interrupt the flow of the program.Using try catch or build in method throw keyword.

What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:The static keyword in Java is mainly used for memory management. The static keyword in Java is used to share the same variable or method of a given class.Using a class name.

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:Final is reserved keyword in java to declare a constant expression to improve security.When you want to declare a constant method, variable,class just declare a final keyword.

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer:Final - is used for restricting some functionalities.
       Finally - is used with a try/catch block and guarantees that a section of code will be executed,
       even if an exception is thrown.
       Finalize - It is a method that the Garbage Collector always calls just before the deletion/destroying the object which
       is eligible for Garbage Collection, to perform clean-up activity.

What is a constructor?
Answer:Constructor is special method in java to initialize the object of the class.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer:Yes,By passing different arguments.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer:By default compiler will generate zero argument constructor.

What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer:This keyword is used to represent current class object. this keyword then (this.variableName), (this.MethodName()).

What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer:super' is a keyword used to access data of the parent class.
       an example could be that vehicle and car both classes have
       a common property color. If we print color property, it will print the color of current class by default.

What does JVM stand for?
Answer:JAVA VIRTUAL MACHINE

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer:yes

What version of Java are you using?
Answer:jdk 11.0

What does JAR stand for?
Answer:JAVA ARCHIVE

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer:JDK is a software development kit to develop applications in Java.
       JVM executes Java byte code and provides an environment for executing it.


What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer:JRE is an environment, in order to execute any Java program locally.
       JRE is an environment, in order to execute any Java program locally.

Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer:Compile time : Compile-Time is the time at which the source code is converted into an executable code
                      Run-Time is the time at which the executable code is started running.

What is heap?
Answer: Heap is the memory used to store objects.

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer: Heap and Stack

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer:

What is Singleton class?
Answer:A class that can have only one object at a time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer:Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
       Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer: While loop check the condition first if condition is true it will execute the body.
       Do While executes the loop first, and then checks the condition to see if it should continue looping.

What is Enum?
Answer:An enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants

What is Iterator?
Answer: An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet.


Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer:An integer will take more memory because int is a primitive data type and integer is a class type. An integer
       occupies 16 bytes whereas int occupies 4 bytes.

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer: The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in the String pool.
:

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer:Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.
Constructor chaining can be done in two ways: Within same class: It can be done using this() keyword for constructors in same class.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer:Serial garbage collector uses a single thread for garbage collection process while the
       parallel garbage collector uses multiple threads for the garbage collection.

What does JIT stands for?
Answer:Just In Time

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer:Java garbage collection is the process by which Java programs perform automatic memory management.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer: No, Garbage collection does not guarantee that a program will not run out of memory.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer:tack is used to store the order of method execution and local variables
       while heap memory stores the objects

What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer:Java Reflection is a process of examining or modifying the run time behavior of a class at run time. It is
       useful since Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime, without
       knowing the names of the classes, methods etc. at compile time.


What is multithreading in Java?
Answer:Multithreading refers to a process of executing two or more threads simultaneously

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer:The capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.

What is a Framework?
Answer:A framework is a structure that you can build software on.

What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer:JUnit, JBehave, Serenity, Selenium, TestNG.


What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer:JUnit and testNG are testing framework for programming language.

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer:gson-2.6.2.jar
               jackson-annotations-2.11.3.jar
               jackson-core-2.11.3.jar
               jackson-databind-2.11.3.jar
               java-json.jar
               javax.json-1.0.jar
               mongo-java-driver-3.4.0.jar
               mysql-connector-java-8.0.28.jar
               protobuf-java-3.11.4.jar
               testng-6.8.7.jar

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer: Dependency injection (DI) is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside.


Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer:tatic binding uses Type information for binding while Dynamic binding uses Objects to resolve binding.